docs/light-aquifers-only.rst, before:

light-aquifers-only
===================

.. dfhack-tool::
    :summary: Change heavy and varied aquifers to light aquifers.
    :tags: embark fort armok map

This script behaves differently depending on whether it's called pre-embark or
post-embark. Pre-embark, it changes all aquifers in the world to light ones,
while post-embark it only modifies the active map tiles, leaving the rest of
the world unchanged.

Usage
-----

::

    light-aquifers-only

If you don't ever want to have to deal with heavy aquifers, you can enable the
``light-aquifers-only`` command in the "Autostart" tab of `gui/control-panel`
so it will be run automatically whenever you start a new fort.

Technical details
-----------------

When run pre-embark, this script changes the drainage of all world tiles that
would generate heavy aquifers into a value that results in light aquifers
instead, based on logic revealed by ToadyOne in a FotF answer:
http://www.bay12forums.com/smf/index.php?topic=169696.msg8099138#msg8099138

Basically, the drainage is used as an "RNG" to cause an aquifer to be heavy
about 5% of the time. The script shifts the matching numbers to a neighboring
one, which does not result in any change of the biome.

When run post-embark, this script simply clears the flags that mark aquifer
tiles as heavy, converting them to light.

Commit message:

replace drain-aquifer with aquifer drain

docs/light-aquifers-only.rst, after:

light-aquifers-only
===================

.. dfhack-tool::
    :summary: Change heavy and varied aquifers to light aquifers.
    :tags: embark fort armok map

This script behaves differently depending on whether it's called pre-embark or
post-embark. Pre-embark, it changes all aquifers in the world to light ones,
while post-embark it only modifies the active map tiles, leaving the rest of
the world unchanged.

For more powerful aquifer editing, please see `aquifer` and `gui/aquifer`.

Usage
-----

::

    light-aquifers-only

If you don't ever want to have to deal with heavy aquifers, you can enable the
``light-aquifers-only`` command in the "Autostart" tab of `gui/control-panel`
so it will be run automatically whenever you start a new fort.

Technical details
-----------------

When run pre-embark, this script changes the drainage of all world tiles that
would generate heavy aquifers into a value that results in light aquifers
instead, based on logic revealed by ToadyOne in a FotF answer:
http://www.bay12forums.com/smf/index.php?topic=169696.msg8099138#msg8099138

Basically, the drainage is used as an "RNG" to cause an aquifer to be heavy
about 5% of the time. The script shifts the matching numbers to a neighboring
one, which does not result in any change of the biome.

When run post-embark, this script simply clears the flags that mark aquifer
tiles as heavy, converting them to light.
